# Benjamin Ng - Project Portfolio Page

## Overview

SysLib is a command-line interface (CLI) software designed for system librarians, particularly those with proficient typing skills. 
It offers a comprehensive set of functions, including viewing, adding, searching, editing, deleting, and saving, to effectively oversee library resources and events.

### Summary of Contributions

#### Code contributed

View the code I contributed via the tp Code Dashboard link [here](https://nus-cs2113-ay2324s1.github.io/tp-dashboard/?search=bnjm2000&breakdown=false&sort=groupTitle%20dsc&sortWithin=title&since=2023-09-22&timeframe=commit&mergegroup=&groupSelect=groupByRepos).


#### Enhancements implemented

**Enhancements**:
1. Methods to display messages to users and keep outputs consistent
2. Summary Feature for Resources
3. Edit feature for Events
4. Status of attribute for resources


**Details:**

**1. Methods to display messages to users**

Main methods implemented:

`showHelpMessage()` and `showExitMessage()`

Also ensured that all outputs are consistent with a divider line so as to easily 
differentiate between a user input or program output

**2. Summary feature**

Main implementation: `SummaryCommand` class

Implemented the **summary** feature.

Summarises all resources that are currently in the database by item type and helpfully displays it into a bar graph for easy viewing.

**Example**:
```
Summary of Resources:
Total Resources: 26
Total Books: [████████████████] 12
Total CDs: [███] 2
Total Magazines: [██████] 4
Total E-Books: [█] 1
Total E-Magazines: [████] 3
Total Newspapers: [███] 2
Total E-Newspapers: [███] 2

Summary of Events:
Total Events: 7
Upcoming Events (Next 3):
1. Storey telling session | 21 Dec 2023 | null
2. Maintenance | 21 Dec 2023 | null
3. New Year | 01 Jan 2024 | null
```

Also summarises all events, shows the total number of events and shows the 3 upcoming events in order.

**3. Edit feature for Events**

Main implementation: 

`EventEditCommand` class

Implemented the `eventedit` feature for all events.

Edit feature supports editing:
- **For all events:**
- Able to edit any attribute of the event other than the assigned ID:
  - Title
  - Date
  - Description

Implemented validation and error checking for EventEditCommand, which prevents changing of any attribute of no new changes were input. 
In that scenario, prints message to user to say that no attributes were changed


**4. Status attribute for Resources**

Main implementation: `getStatus()`, `setStatus()` in `Resource` class

Implemented methods in Resource class which sets the status of the resource when executing `addCommand` (defaults to AVAILABLE when no input is given). 
This attribute indicates the status of the resource. To do so, an enumerator was created with `AVAILABLE`, `BORROWED` OR `LOST` was created.

Also allowed resource's status to be able to be edited later.

**4. Help Command**

Main implementation: `HelpCommand` class

Allows users to key in `help` so give the users a basic understanding of the commands available as well as to lead 
the users to the User Guide for more information if they would like.

Allowed for the commands to be easily be seen as well as a short explanation of the commands and easy-to-read examples.

```
Commands available:
[add] adds a new resource to the library inventory. (e.g. add /i ISBN /t TITLE /a AUTHOR /tag TAG [/g GENRE /s STATUS])
[delete] deletes the resource with the specified ID from the library inventory. (e.g. delete /id 123456789)
[list] lists all resources OR filter by certain tags, genre, or status. (e.g. list /tag B /g Fiction /s AVAILABLE)
[find] finds a resource by title, author, ISBN or given id. (e.g. find /i 9780763630188 /a AUTHOR)
[edit] edits a listing by entering its id to update its details. (e.g. edit /id 123 /t NEW_TITLE /a NEW_AUTHOR)
[eventadd] adds an event to the database. (e.g. eventadd /t TITLE /date 23 Dec 2023 [/desc DESCRIPTION])
[eventlist] lists out all events in the database. (e.g. eventlist)
[eventdelete] deletes an event from the database based on the index. (e.g. eventdelete /i INDEX)
[eventedit] edits an event in the event list based on the information given. (e.g. eventedit /i INDEX [/t TITLE /date DATE /desc DESCRIPTION])
[summary] shows a summary of all resources and the next 3 events. (e.g. summary)
[exit] displays a farewell message and exits the program. (e.g. exit)

For more information, please refer to our user guide at: https://bit.ly/SyslibUserGuide
____________________________________________________________
```

**5. Exit Command**

Main implementation: `ExitCommand` class

Implemented the **exit** feature to allow the user to exit the program safely.
Prints a message to the user to indicate that their stored information has been saved and they are exiting the program.

```
Thanks for using SysLib CLI! We have saved the current resources and events.
See you next time!
```

#### Contributions to the UG:

Sections contributed:
- Introduction
- Quick-start
- Notes on Status
- Sample input and response
- EventEdit Command
- Summary Command
- Exit Command
- Help Command
- Consistency in sample input and outputs.


#### Contributions to the DG:

Sections contributed:

- EventEdit Command section and ListCommand sequence diagram
- Summary Command section and Edit activity diagram
- Status for Resources
- Instructions for manual testing:
  - Help
  - Add (example outputs)
  - List (example outputs)
  - Delete (example outputs)
  - Exit
  - EventAdd (example outputs)
  - EventEdit
  - EventList (example outputs)
  - EventDelete (example outputs)
  - Summary


#### Contributions to team-based tasks

- Helped managed some issues and milestones by using keywords and closing when completed
- Bug test 2.0 .jar file and created issues based on bugs found
- Help troubleshoot when checks fail on GitHub
- Conscientiously checked on the code to ensure consistency in coding standards and outputs.
- Ensured `help` command, DG and UG are up to date with sample input and outputs.

#### Review/mentoring contributions:

- Reviewed multiple peer pull requests.
- Gave constructive and witty comments.
- Assisted in debugging own group's code.

#### Contributions beyond the project team:

- Helped test other group's project during PE-D, creating 8 bug issues
- Peer reviewed other team's developers guide in their [PR](https://github.com/nus-cs2113-AY2324S1/tp/pull/11/files#diff-1a95edf069a4136e9cb71bee758b0dc86996f6051f0d438ec2c424557de7160b)